Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

At a time when the country is inundated with a flood of trash, I have regarded your proposal to publish a Library of Christian Knowledge, as an auspicious sign of the times; and I most heartily bid you “God speed!” in your commendable enterprise. Thus far, my numerous avocations have prevented my particular attention to the volumes which compose it, and I can, therefore, speak with confidence only of two of the series. The volume which you have now in press, Blunt’s Sketch of the Reformation in England, I have long considered among the most valuable books which the Church of England, fruitful in all good works, has lately produced; and the volume entitled, Popular Infidelity, written for the series by my accomplished and intelligent friend, the Editor, will take its place among the standard books of our language. If, indeed, I had seen none of the series, such is my confidence, founded on long and intimate acquaintance, in the Rev. Herman Hooker, who has charge of it, that I should not hesitate to commend the undertaking to the confidence of the Church, and to the acceptance of the whole community. Praying fervently that He, who in every good work gives the increase, may direct this Christian enterprise, and make it promotive of the Gospel in the Church, I remain very respectfully yours,

G. W. DOANE, D. D.

Bishop of New Jersey.

Philadelphia, Feb. 8, 1837.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall, & Co.

Gentlemen:—In reply to your communication, in reference to the “Library of Christian Knowledge,” edited by the Rev. Herman Hooker, I take pleasure in saying, that I regard it as one of the most valuable and substantial publications of the present day. The original [2]works from the pen of the talented editor, I regard, as among the ablest productions of modern times; and his excellent taste has led him to select from the English writers, some of the richest stores of theological truth. I rejoice to know, that this work is to be continued, and I wish it all success. In my view, both the editor and the publisher, are conferring upon the country a rich blessing in this publication.

JOHN A. CLARK,

Rector of St. Andrew’s Church, Philadelphia.

Princeton, N. J. Feb. 18, 1837.

The “Library of Christian Knowledge,” edited by the Rev. Herman Hooker, and published by Marshall & Co. in a series of small volumes, is upon a plan well calculated to be useful. The publication of religious treatises, characterised by sound evangelical sentiments, and animated with the spirit of genuine piety, cannot but be highly beneficial to the Christian community.

The five volumes of this series which have been already published, meet with my cordial approbation; and if these may be considered a fair specimen of those which are to follow, the work may be safely recommended, as furnishing materials for a valuable Christian Library.

A. ALEXANDER,

Prof. of Didactic Theology, in the Theological Seminary, Princeton.

Princeton, Feb. 16, 1837.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

Gentlemen:—I have attended with much interest to the volumes of the “Library of Christian Knowledge,” as they have successively appeared; and exceedingly rejoice, both in the plan of the work, and thus far, in its execution. I have a high opinion of the piety and the talents of the Rev. Mr. Hooker, the editor, and consider him as well qualified to conduct a work of this nature. If the future volumes should bear a stamp similar to that of those which have hitherto appeared, I shall be glad—and every friend of genuine Christianity, I should hope, would be glad—to see them universally circulated. Wishing you, and the excellent editor, every encouragement in this publication, I am, gentlemen, respectfully yours,

SAMUEL MILLER,

Professor of Eccl. History in the Theological Seminary, Princeton.

Philadelphia, March 2, 1837.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

Gentlemen:—I have just received your communication of the 28th ult. respecting the “Library of Christian Knowledge,” now in the course of publication by you. I had supposed that the work had already established for itself such a character, as to need no recommendation from any quarter. But, as you are pleased to suppose that my opinion of it, may be of some use in aiding its circulation, I cannot refuse to give it to you. And I can truly say, that, judging from the character of the works already published in the series, I think it a most valuable publication; and one well calculated to introduce and cherish a taste for literature of a high order, and for [3]religious sentiments, the most evangelical and pure. As to the Rev. Mr. Hooker, your editor, I regard him as one of our most accomplished and intellectual men. Any thing that he adjudges fit for the press, and any thing that comes from his pen, has for me sufficient recommendation in that very fact. His name ought to be, for any work, a full passport to the confidence of the public. His work on “Popular Infidelity,” alone, which makes up your fifth volume, is of itself sufficient to secure him a high and lasting reputation, as a man of profound thinking, of very great logical power, and of very enviable literary attainments. I think that volume alone will be worth the price of the whole set. Wishing you success in your laudable enterprise, I am, gentlemen, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

HENRY W. DUCACHET, M. D.

Rector of St. Stephens, Philadelphia.

Philadelphia, March 17, 1837.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

Gentlemen:—I have read several of the volumes of the “Library of Christian Knowledge,” edited by the Rev. H. Hooker, and desire to express my strong sense of the importance of the project, and of the worth of the books, which have been published. It is a very important design which proposes to turn the reading of the religious community, from the lighter works of imagination which have been rather gaining in popularity among such readers, to a grave and instructive class of books. I consider Mr. Hooker’s selection, to have been eminently judicious, as far as regards the real improvement of his readers; though I should not be surprised, if some less useful works, should outstrip these, in the market. The worth of a book is too much determined, by the way it sells. If the actual value is the standard of estimation, the Library of Christian Knowledge, will stand very high. Respectfully yours,

STEPHEN H. TYNG, D. D.

From the Rev. Charles Henry Alden, A. M. Principal of the Philadelphia High School for Young Ladies, No. 6 Portico Square.

As editor of the “Library of Christian Knowledge,” it is difficult to conceive of one better qualified in all respects, than the Rev. Mr. Hooker. Remarkable for his mental discipline; familiar with our literature, and especially with the higher order of Theological Letters; habitually conversant with principles of human nature, and embracing in his wishes to benefit others, all sensible and good men, he has rendered a most acceptable service to your readers, and secured an enviable distinction to himself.

The selected works so far are, in my judgment, most excellent. “M’Laurin’s Essays” can never be depreciated but by such as have no sympathy with intellectual elevation and manly piety. “Goode’s Better Covenant” has already passed to the second edition; and few men of intelligence, but must admire its chaste, simple and manly style; and its clear discrimination and affecting views of Christian doctrines and Christian duties. “Russell’s Letters,” comprising No. 3 and 4, are of far more extensive application than their title imports. No person of reflection, whether he be a religious man or not, can fail of [4]finding both interest and profit in the reading. No. 5, Mr. Hooker’s original work, has been so recently published, and so extensively spoken well of, that I will say only, that if a man desires the best of company, in which he will find what will please and improve and dignify, during his reading hours, let him discourse with “Hooker’s Popular Infidelity.” Yours, very respectfully,

CHARLES HENRY ALDEN.

Feb. 20, 1837.

Baltimore, Feb. 15, 1837.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

Gentlemen:—In answer to yours of the 4th inst. it gives me pleasure to state, that I have read the volumes of the “Library of Christian Knowledge,” already published, and am gratified that evangelical works of such [7]distinguished merit have been offered to the reading community in a form so popular and attractive. You have done well, I think, in securing the editorial services of the talented author of “The Portion of the Soul,” and “Popular Infidelity,” whose well known taste and established orthodoxy, give assurance that he will select no works, that will not be worthy of perusal, and well adapted to the peculiar wants of the church, at this interesting period.

I am happy to find, that you design to continue the publication of the Library, and sincerely hope that you will be sustained in it by the liberal patronage of the Christian public. Yours, respectfully,

J. P. K. HENSHAW, D. D.

Philadelphia, March 13th, 1837.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

Gentlemen:—I am gratified to learn, that you are about issuing a sixth volume of your “Library of Christian Knowledge.” The volumes already published constitute a very valuable accession to our stock of religious literature, and are worthy of a place in every Christian family. The editor is well known to the public, as the author of several practical works of great value; and I am acquainted with no man who is better qualified than himself, to superintend a publication of the kind in question. Believing as I do, that you are very effectually promoting the interests of true religion, by placing within the reach of American Christians, such works as those contemplated in the plan of your library, I trust the enterprise will receive a liberal and growing patronage, which will enable you to make it, in extent as well as in character, a complete “Library of Christian Knowledge.” I am, very respectfully, yours, &c.

H. A. BOARDMAN,

Pastor of the Tenth Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia.

Baltimore, Feb. 27th, 1837.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

Gentlemen:—I am extremely sorry, that it is not in my power to comply with the request contained in your letter. The difficulty arises from no indisposition to accommodate you, nor from any want of confidence in the work, with which you are furnishing the public, but simply from the fact, that I have only the last three volumes of the series, and of these, have been so situated, as to have read only volumes [5]three and four. If I had the leisure at present, it would give me pleasure to procure and peruse the others; and then forward you the recommendation, which I am sure I should feel authorised to give.

“Russell’s Letters,” I have read with more satisfaction than I have derived from most of the modern publications which have come under my notice; and I do not hesitate to say, that the pleasure of perusing those two volumes, would be an equivalent for the price of the five. In the competency of the editor to continue the series, I have full confidence. He has given sufficient proof in the character of the selections already made. I am therefore gratified to learn that the “Library of Christian Knowledge” is to be enlarged. In haste, yours truly,

J. JOHNS, D. D.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

Gentlemen:—Your favour of the 13th inst. was duly received. But the engagements of the season, through which we have been passing, must be my apology for not sooner returning an answer.

I have not read all the volumes of “The Library of Christian Knowledge,” but what I have read, and especially what I know of their able and pious editor, and of his writings, make me confident in saying that the series which he is engaged in publishing, will prove a valuable addition to the religious literature of the country. We need a multiplication of such men as Mr. Hooker, and of such works as he writes and publishes; and this need should lead us to receive most thankfully, and improve most faithfully, so far as it shall extend the rich supply which he is furnishing. Very respectfully, your friend,

JOHN I. STONE,

Rector of St. Paul’s Church, Boston.

March 27th, 1837.

Philadelphia, March 31, 1837.

Messrs. Wm. Marshall & Co.

Gentlemen:—Few men exert a more decided, extensive, and lasting influence upon society than Booksellers; and in these times, when so many prostitute the press to gratify and increase the appetite for books that are worthless, or decidedly immoral in their tendency; it is exceedingly gratifying to find here a firm, who bring nothing before the world which can injure their race. So far as I have noticed, you have as yet published nothing at which you need blush, should you meet the book on the parlour table of your best friend.

Among others of your productions, I have read your “Library of Christian Knowledge,” edited by Mr. Hooker. Ever since I read the little work of Mr. H. entitled “The Portion of the Soul,” I have felt sure, that he was safe; by which I mean, that any work to which he might prefix his name, would be a sound, discreet, judicious book. His taste is correct, discriminating; and his own pen at times, is guided by a hand of no ordinary strength. Honestly attached to the Episcopal Church, he, nevertheless, is so endowed with the limbs of a man, and the heart of a Christian, that his denominational habits do not hinder him from appearing in a working dress, in the vineyard of his Master. I can sincerely recommend the “Library,” as [6]containing such works of practical piety, as will be useful in every family, and I could wish that the circulation of such works might banish the light reading of the age. I hope your circulation will be very extensive. Respectfully yours,

J. TODD.

THE LIBRARY OF CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE. Edited by the Rev. Herman Hooker, A. M. Author of “The Portion of the Soul,” &c.

Four volumes of this series have appeared, and if we may consider these as a specimen of the work, we congratulate the Christian public on the prospect of being supplied from time to time, with a rich feast of evangelical matter, calculated to give nourishment and refreshment to the spiritual life of believers.

M’Laurin’s Essays is not a recent work, but the lapse of years can never destroy its value. While the observations of the author are strictly orthodox, they are philosophical, and if read with candour and attention, must have a powerful effect in correcting mistakes and expelling prejudices where they have been imbibed, and in enlightening the mind, and invigorating the faith of the sincere Christian. We would strongly recommend the perusal and reperusal of these essays to the young theologian. Too great a proportion of time, we fear, is spent by the young ministers of our day in light reading, which, while it gratifies a prurient curiosity, has no tendency to strengthen the mind. The effect produced is superficial knowledge, and a distaste for deep and solid research. Religious people are now distinguished for bustling activity and a show of benevolence and zeal; but there exists a sad deficiency of profound and systematic knowledge even in those who have enjoyed the advantages of a liberal education.

The whole life and energies of M’Laurin were devoted to the highest good of his fellow men; and this lovely principle beams forth brightly in his works. Originality, truth, and beauty, are prominent characteristics of his writings. * * His elements of thought, from whatever source they are drawn, from external Nature, from the exercises and sentiments of the soul, or from the mysteries of redemption, are formed into complete emblems of the richness and peculiarity of the mind from which they proceed. The advantages of a well balanced mind, of a proper discipline of all the powers, and a nice adjustment of them to each other, is strikingly seen in these essays.

In conclusion, we would say the richness and power of thought, the simplicity and greatness of conception in M’Laurin can be realised only by his readers; and to those who would study the revelation of God to man, in its symmetry, its magnitude, its intrinsic excellence, “its easy, free, and unincumbered plan,” these essays will be a most powerful assistance.—N. Y. Literary and Theological Review.

Library of Christian Knowledge, Vols. 3, 4, 5; Edited by Rev. Herman Hooker. Philadelphia: W. Marshall, 1836.—This series is, as a course of rare and valuable works in the practical department of theology, far in advance of any that has ever been published in the United States. “M’Laurin’s Essays,” and “Goode’s Better Covenant,” the first of the course, are intellectually and evangelically works of such high character, and withal, so little known hitherto to the American public, that Mr. Hooker has already won for his “Library” golden opinions, and the announcement of a new volume of the series, is taken by the reading community as an invitation to a spiritual and intellectual banquet, where “nothing common or unclean” will be presented to the taste. Vols. 3 and 4 contain “Letters Practical and Consolatory; designed to illustrate the nature and Tendency of the Gospel; by the Rev. David Russell, D. D.; with an Introductory Essay, by the Rev. H. A. Boardman, Philadelphia.” The hasty glance which we have had opportunity to bestow on these volumes, has satisfied us that they are worthy successors to those of the series already before the public. This is sufficient praise. The 5th volume contains an essay by the Editor, the Rev. Herman Hooker, A. M. on “Popular Infidelity.” Mr. Hooker is already extensively and favourably known as an author, through his work, entitled “The Portion of the Soul.” We have read his volume on “Popular Infidelity,” much to our pleasure and edification. Mr. Hooker has a clear and philosophical mind, which analyses truth to its simplest elements, and presents it in pure, plain, Saxon English.—Christian Witness, Boston, Aug. 12, 1836.

THE BETTER COVENANT PRACTICALLY CONSIDERED. By the Rev. Francis Goode. Vol. 2, Library of Christian Knowledge.

The Better Covenant.—This work of the Rev. Francis Goode, has recently been published as the second volume of the Library of Christian Knowledge, by Messrs. W. Marshall & Co. of this city. The best characteristic of the work probably is, its faithful development of Scriptural truth, in language entirely appropriate to the importance of the subject, while it is so clear and satisfactory as to be easily understood by the plainest reader. Its character in other respects is well and justly expressed in the letter of Bishop M’Ilvaine contained in the preface.—Episcopal Recorder.

From the N. Y. Christian Intelligencer.

The Better Covenant.—We have read this work, of which we had not previously heard, with great and unmingled pleasure. It has reminded us of Jewell, Hopkins, Leighton, &c. of the church of which he is a member, in generations gone by, as well as Owen, Flava, &c. among the non-conformists, as it unfolded the choicest of matter, of sound evangelical doctrine moulded in the happiest form of experience, and practice. The author is at present lecturer at Clapham, known to many as the residence of Wilberforce, Thornton, and others greatly distinguished by piety and philanthropy, and was formerly lecturer in the mission church in Calcutta. Bishop M’Ilvaine in a recommendatory letter thus speaks of it: “As a book of divinity; divinity as it should be, not cold, and abstract and dead, freezing the affections while it exercises the intellect, but retaining the living beauty, and heart affecting interest of the revelation it proceeds from—divinity adapted to the intellectual wants of the closest students of divine truth, which provides the simplest, and sweetest nourishment for the spiritual necessities of the humblest Christian;—As a book of practical piety, especially in regard to the display it gives of the [8]nothingness of the sinner out of Christ, and the completeness of the believer in Christ, and its tendency to promote a spirit of active, cheerful obedience, by all those motives of thankfulness, love, peace, and joyful hope, which belong to the adoption of sons—I know of no book of the present age more valuable. Students of divinity will find it a book to be studied. Readers of devotional writings will find it full of divine knowledge, of experimental truth, and of excitements to prayer, and praise.” With this strong recommendation of Bishop M’Ilvaine, we feel ourselves willing to accord.

The first volume of the series of the Library of religious knowledge, is M’Laurin’s Essays, a work of acknowledged standard excellence. If the succeeding volumes should be equally valuable with the two already published, the series will have a just claim upon the patronage of our religious public. We have seen it stated that it is designed to introduce into the series, Letters on Religious Subjects, by the Rev. David Russell, of Dundee, Scotland, a work little known to American Christians, but of very sterling merit.

From the Episcopal Recorder.

The Better Covenant Practically Considered.—The above is the title of a work which has recently been published in this city, as the third volume of the Christian Family Library, edited by the Rev. Herman Hooker. The author is the Rev. Francis Goode, of the Church of England, an accomplished scholar, and most devout and godly man. Many excellent treatises upon practical and experimental religion have been issued from the press within the last few years, but none that we have seen is at all to be compared with this. Indeed, we think it decidedly the best book of the kind we have ever read. We know of none in which the glory and excellency of Christ’s salvation is so clearly, fully and delightfully presented to the mind. Throughout, Christ crucified is all in all to the sinner’s soul. Accordingly, as it richly deserves, it is spoken of in the highest terms of commendation, by both clergy and laity. Some of the former, believing that they could not in any other way more effectually preach the Gospel in all its freeness and richness, have even recommended it from the pulpit to their congregations.

We would wish to see his book in every family in the land. We are deeply persuaded that no Christian could rise from its perusal without more enlarged and affecting views of what his Saviour had done for him, without more humility, penitence and gratitude to God, and without a more fixed determination, or divine aid, to follow on to know the Lord and to be filled with all the fullness of God.

Goode’s Better Covenant.—We have had but little time to examine this book; but have seen enough of it to desire the opportunity of giving it an attentive perusal. It is undoubtedly a good book, written by one who gives strong evidence of his own personal interest in the better Covenant than the covenant of works. He is much of an old fashioned divine for one of modern times, who makes Christ all in all in the sinner’s salvation. The edition of Goode, published by Wm. Marshall, Philadelphia, contains a preface and table of contents, by the Rev. Herman Hooker.—Philadelphian.

[9]

Goode’s Better Covenant.—This volume is made up of Lectures by the Rev. Francis Goode, a clergyman of the Church of England, on portions of the 8th chapter of St. Paul’s Epistle to the Hebrews, and portions of his Epistle to the Philippians. Mr. Goode is understood to be one of the brightest spiritual lights of the mother Church. The introduction by Mr. Hooker, contains a letter of Bishop M’Ilvaine, in which he expresses great satisfaction in view of the republication of the work in this country, and classes the author with the Bickersteths, Noels, Melvilles and Wilsons of the Church of England. We have not had opportunity to read the book in course, but have formed a high estimate of its intellectual and evangelical excellence from the parts which have fallen under our notice.—Christian Witness.

The author of this work is a clergyman of the Church of England. This book is replete with practical thought and instruction on some of the most important doctrines of Christianity. It is a work which it gives us a pleasure to recommend to readers in every church, and of every class. We have copied an extract from it on the first page of this paper, under the head of “Views of Doctrine.”—So. Religious Telegraph, June 10, 1836.

We have read this book with great pleasure. The author, a clergyman of the Church of England, appears to have learned from the Bible the same great truths of Christianity which strongly mark the writings of John Calvin, Leighton and Owen. Bishop M’Ilvaine says, “I am truly rejoiced, that the theological literature of this country is to be enriched with the addition of so excellent a work.”—Sold at the Bookstores of Messrs. Yale & Wyatt.—So. Religious Telegraph.

Library of Christian Knowledge.—This will undoubtedly prove to be a most valuable series of books. The editor is, at once, a man of genius, taste and erudition, and we are quite sure that no work will bear his name as editor, which is not possessed of sterling merit. Two volumes of this series have already appeared: the first, M’Laurin’s Essays, we noticed some time since as a volume rich in profound and valuable thought; the second, “Goode’s Better Covenant,” is now before us. The writer is a living divine of the Church of England, but the book has nothing in it of a sectarian character. Bishop M’Ilvaine (in a letter to the Editor) says, “As a book of practical piety, I know of no book of the present age more valuable.” This certainly is high praise and comes from a high source: if we do not esteem the work quite as highly as the Bishop, (perhaps because we have not studied it as carefully,) we are fully prepared to pronounce it a most excellent book. We understand that another volume is nearly ready for publication, which is to be followed by an original work on Infidelity from the pen of the accomplished editor.—Boston Traveller.

This volume cannot be read by the pious without sensible profit. It breathes the very spirit of ardent piety, and directs continually to Christ, as the only source of strength and growth in grace. The kind of faith here inculcated, is not a cold rational assent to general [10]propositions, but a cordial, living principle of action, the exercise of which is commonly accompanied with a sweet persuasion of pardon and acceptance. Nothing animates and encourages the pious soul in its spiritual pilgrimage so much, as the smiles of the great Captain of Salvation.—Biblical Repertory, Princeton.

LETTERS PRACTICAL AND CONSOLATORY, DESIGNED TO ILLUSTRATE THE NATURE AND TENDENCY OF THE GOSPEL. By the Rev. David Russell, D. D. with an Introductory Essay, by the Rev. Henry A. Boardman. Vol. 3 and 4, Library of Christian Knowledge.

We are much gratified that the theological writings of the Rev. Doctor Russell of Dundee, begin to attract the attention of American readers. The editor could not easily have hit upon a work better adapted to instruct and comfort the pious reader, than these small volumes of letters. They are, we think, the best productions of the gifted author’s pen. They appear to have been written in the course of a real correspondence, which gives them a greater freedom of style than could easily be attained in letters originally intended for the press. Though the letters are practical, and particularly suited to afford rich consolation to the children of sorrow, they are nevertheless eminently instructive. There are few books from which a clearer idea can be obtained of the doctrines of the Christian system than from these Letters. They contain, as do his other writings, the pure Gospel of Jesus Christ. The peculiar excellency of these volumes is, that you have the truth exhibited, not in a controversial or even a systematic form, but in its practical bearings, as a guide both to faith and practice. The style is clear, concise, and easy; and possesses a vivacity which keeps up the interest of the reader.—Biblical Repertory and Theological Review.

Russell’s Letters, Practical and Consolatory, designed to illustrate the nature and tendency of the Gospel, with an introductory Essay by the Rev. H. A. Boardman; forming volumes 3d and 4th of the Library of Christian Knowledge; edited by Rev. Herman Hooker. This work has just been issued by the enterprising publishers, Wm. Marshall & Co. The Introductory Essay is a well written exposition of the characteristics of the work, abounding with specimens of the happy style and temper of the author. He expresses the opinion that no work of recent origin is so worthy to be read and admired by all classes of Christians as these letters of Dr. Russell. The examination which we have given them leaves us with the opinion that this is a just estimate of their value. The Letters are written in a natural, intelligible, and appropriate style. A spirit of ardent, simple, and affectionate piety runs through them, which must win the confidence and awaken the interest of the reader. The author has published several other works, all of which are in high repute; but his Letters have, perhaps, been more popular, and more extensively circulated than any other of his productions.—Commercial Herald.

Russell’s Letters, in two volumes, exhibit, in a chaste and intelligible style, the most important features in the plan of redemption and of Christian duty. The letters were actually addressed to an [11]individual, previous to publication, for this purpose; a circumstance which has been justly thought calculated to ensure for them a peculiarly practical character. Those who desire clear and profitable instruction upon the subject of religion, from an original, but judicious, well balanced and pious mind, will not be disappointed in perusing Russell’s Letters.—Episcopal Recorder.

The Rev. Mr. Boardman thus speaks, in his Introductory Essay, of the author and his works:—“The name of Dr. Russell is familiar to the friends of Christ throughout the united kingdom—and his eminent piety, talents, and usefulness have placed him in the front rank of those celebrated divines, who are justly regarded as an ornament of his country, and an invaluable blessing to the age. His various writings are held in high estimation on the other side of the Atlantic, and it is not a little surprising that the extensive circulation which they have had there, has not led to an earlier republication of them in the United States. This series of Letters is perhaps the most interesting of all his works. Those who may peruse it, will not deem the opinion an extravagant one, that it will hereafter rank with the standard volumes on practical religion, which find a place in every Christian Library.”

POPULAR INFIDELITY. By the Rev. Herman Hooker, M. A. Vol. 5, Library of Christian Knowledge.

When, in our first volume, we took notice of the Rev. Mr. Hooker’s “Portion of the Soul,” we expressed the hope, that, from the golden vein thus opened, we should have other and richer specimens—and we ventured to predict, that, the more it should be worked, the finer would be the ingot. We are proud to record our predictions. In the present volume our most golden dreams are more than realized. It is a book of an age; and we will say of a better age—“specimen melioris ævi.” It shall be taken down, in the dark, from the same shelf on which the writings of South, Taylor, Barrow, Boyle, Bates, and How, repose in glory unsurpassed of earth; and shall be replaced again, when read, by the most ardent lover of them all, as worthy of the high companionship. We know what we have said, and we challenge doubters to the proof.

It is the object of the author to unmask that secret infidelity of the heart, of which St. Paul gives admonition, in his epistle to the Hebrews—“Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God”—and he has well accomplished it. His pen seems an Ithuriel’s spear, to strip the subtle fraud, which he pursues with singular skill, of all its multiplied disguises. His page teems with illustrations, the rarest, the aptest, and the most beautiful, of his important theme. It is impossible, plain as the truths are which he speaks, to be offended with him, from the pure benevolence which is felt to be his prompter; and, such the vein of keen, but half repressed and silent, humour which pervades the book, that, once taken up, it is impossible to lay it down till it is finished. We began to mark the passages which, for the thought or the expression, struck us, as we read, by turning down the leaf; and the volume lies before us, increased by half its thickness. To review it, as it deserves, is not within the compass of our craft. Not to commend it to [12]universal notice, would be to do our readers an unpardonable injustice. There was great want of such a book, which, by its engaging character, should tempt men to become acquainted with themselves—which should expose the vanity and recklessness with which many, “who profess and call themselves Christians,” are running the giddy round of self-delusion and self-dependence—which should bring home the thoughts of men to God and their own hearts; and induce them, in the noise and bustle of this restless age, to commune with themselves, in their own chamber, and be still. Such a book is here furnished—unpretending and artless, yet sagacious, powerful and persuasive—as fearless as the Baptist, yet with the Evangelist’s gentleness and meekness—deep, searching and thorough, yet clear and intelligible to the simplest reader—wearying none with its minuteness or prolixity, offending none with its abruptness or severity, delightful to all for its ease, its perspicuity and its amenity.—Missionary.

It would be far exceeding our limits to expatiate on the character of the age, or to show by an analysis of Mr. Hooker’s work, how skilfully and eloquently he has aimed to arrest its pernicious tendencies. The “Popular Infidelity” as well as the “Portion of the Soul,” is a work eminently adapted to the age; and if we have any fault to find with the author, it is that he does not himself view it in that light; that he writes professedly for a class, instead of challenging attention to the work which he is really accomplishing, of writing for his age, and thus speaking in that loftier tone which the reformer is authorised to assume. Infidelity in its more subtle forms, and such as Mr. Hooker has described, is, we fear, a characteristic of the age: few pens have revealed more clearly than his its philosophy and impiety, and our only regret is, that he has not brought the actors and the actions of the Christian world side by side with the original which he so vividly conceives, and thus given a popular estimate of their deformity.

Again, reminding the reader, that the infidelity of which Mr. Hooker treats is to be found not in the outward ranks of avowed unbelievers, but in the inmost recesses of the hearts of professed Christians, we beg leave earnestly to recommend the work to general perusal. It is written in a pure strain of Christian philosophy, and should find its way to the closets and affections of all those “who profess and call themselves Christians.”—New York Churchman.

In the very first chapter of this work, one finds himself introduced into a new and delightful field. To most readers new emotions and unaccustomed trains of thought spring up in the mind, awakening and enkindling the desire for deeper and fuller insight into the great truths there brought to view; and as one proceeds ideas continually cluster around the mind with all the interest and freshness which novelty and a deep insight into our nature can give them. But here let it not be forgotten, that an imperious call is made upon our own undivided attention. If we expect to enter into the spirit of the book, and fully to grasp the author’s argument in all its relations and bearings, we must make up our minds to more of an intellectual effort than is required in the perusal of most books which issue from the press. [13]There is an originality in the conception of “Popular Infidelity,” an intellectual superiority in the execution to which few books of the present day can lay claim.

On the whole we think the treatise on Popular Infidelity one of the best practical works that has appeared for some time; and we would confidently recommend it to the attention of all who wish to become intimately acquainted with their own character. It is eminently calculated to promote the cause of deep, genuine, and enlightened piety, and will suffer nothing, to say the very least, in a comparison with the popular and useful works of Phillip. We have seldom seen a work which so accurately analyses the feelings and principles of the human heart, lays bare the secret springs of human action, and presents to view one’s real self.—Episcopal Recorder.

Popular Infidelity.—This is the fifth volume of the Library of Christian Knowledge, and a volume on a subject which claims all the attention the author has given to it. It is a prominent part of the merit of his work that he gives a clear diagnosis, an intelligible description of the disease for which religion is a cure. The disease is self-deception in various forms and of various types.

Some of the author’s phraseology relating to doctrines seems to imply belief in certain points concerning which we should differ from him. But his views of human ability, of the use of reason in relation to religion and of spiritual influences, appear to us to be sound and scriptural. Without being able to go into a particular description of the work, we judge from what examination we have made, that it may be safely read, in general for doctrine, and every where for reproof and correction, by Christians of all sects.—Boston Christian Register.

Popular Infidelity. By the Rev. Herman Hooker, M. A.—This work supplies a desideratum. Popular Infidelity, of which it treats, has been too long permitted to extend its influence, without any direct opposition from the religious press. Those who could, have refrained from defending “the faith once delivered to the Saints;” and Heresy has been permitted to stalk abroad triumphantly, where the principles and doctrines of the Scriptures should have taken precedence. Every Christian—every clergyman at least, who would defend his belief—should fortify himself with this unanswerable volume. —Philadelphia Gazette, Aug. 8, 1836.
